---
title: Extension Module Integration Guide
---

<AUTOGENERATED_TABLE_OF_CONTENTS>

## Permissions

Haptik SDK adds the following permissions to your app, this is to support all the features in the Haptik SDK.

<a name="launch-permissions"></a>

### Launch Permissions

- “INSTALL_SHORTCUT” (FOR CREATING SHORTCUTS IN WAKE UP REMINDERS)
- “RECEIVE_BOOT_COMPLETED”
  - Important. Required for proper functioning of reminders.
- “VIBRATE”
  - Optional. You may remove it using tools:node if you don’t have it already
    

This module will enable the `Extensions` functionality in the Haptik SDK.

<a name="important-read"></a>

## Step 1: Important Read

1. Extensions internally adds the `Core` dependency to the project, so if `Extensions` dependency is added dependency for `Core` can be safely
   removed from `build.gradle` file.
2. Before starting with integration for `Extensions` functionality make sure all the steps for integrating the `Core` dependency are followed.

<a name="extensions-adding-gradle-dependencies"></a>

## Step 2: Adding Gradle Dependencies

Add the following in module `build.gradle` for eg: `build.gradle (Module: app)`

```java
implementation 'ai.haptik.android.sdk:haptiklib-extensions:6.5.2-65383'
```

## Step 3: Configure Inbox Activity (Optional)

**NOTE** - You need to add `extensions` module for Inbox functionality.

There are two ways to use `InboxView`. You can either add `InboxView` in your activity or you can use `DefaultInboxActivity` which already contains `InboxView`. If you do not want any major customization you can use `DefaultInboxActivity` else you can add `InboxView` in your activity.
For using `DefaultInboxActivity`, you can use `ai.haptik.android.sdk.extensions.Router` class methods :

- Router.signUpAndLaunchInbox() : This will perform the
- This activity will hold `Haptik Inbox View`.
- Create an Activity. For eg "HaptikInboxView"
- Add `Haptik Inbox View` in `xml` of your activity

```xml
<ai.haptik.android.sdk.extensions.inbox.InboxView
      android:id="@+id/inbox"
      android:layout_width="match_parent"
      android:layout_height="match_parent"/>
```

- This is a plug and play view, just initialize the view in the
  `onCreate()` method of the activity.    