---
title: Authentication
---

<AUTOGENERATED_TABLE_OF_CONTENTS>

<a name="basic-sign-up"></a>
## Basic Sign Up

Use the following code to configure the `SignUpData` which is required for signing up the user on the Haptik platform

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->
<!--Java-->

```java
SignUpData signUpData = new SignUpData.Builder(SignUpData.AUTH_TYPE_BASIC)
                    .userFullName(username)
                    .build();
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

The **AUTH_TYPE** parameter can be different from `AUTH_TYPE_BASIC` to your product need. This can be discussed while doing the integration.

The **BASIC** authType parameter is required while signing up.

- _Optional Parameter_: Name

Although name is optional, but it is **recommended** to provide user's name as it does help in customizing user experience.
userFullName(): is an optional parameter, can be entered for customizing the user experience as mentioned above.

<a name="third-party-custom-sign-up"></a>
## Third Party / Custom Sign Up

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->
<!--Java-->

```java
SignUpData signUpData = new SignUpData.Builder("third_party")
                    .userFullName(username)
                    .authId("YOUR AUTH ID HERE")
                    .authToken("YOUR AUTH TOKEN HERE")
                    .build();
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

For `third_party` or custom sign up **authID** is a mandatory field.


<a name="optional-parameters-in-sign-up"></a>
## Optional Parameters in Sign Up

**.userPhone("")** : Pass the user's phone number as a String  
**.userEmail("")** : Pass user's email address as a String  
**.customData()** : Pass any additional data to be sent during sign up
as a HashMap of String (key), String (value)


## Performing SignUp

There are 2 ways to sign up the user on the Haptik platform.

**1. Using Router class :**

If you do not want any customization in sign
up process like UI customization, you can use `Router` class. There are
2 methods for doing so.

- Use `Router.signUpAndLaunchInbox()` method to sign up the user and open inbox after successful signup. You need to pass SignUp object in this method.
- Use `Router.signUpAndLaunchChannel()` method to sign up the user and open specific channel after successful signup. You need to pass SignUp object and viaName of the channel in this method.
- Use `Router.signUpAndLaunchChannelWithCustomMessage()` method to sign
  up the user and launch a channel with a custom message

Note : You need to initialize Haptik SDK before calling above methods.
Note : If you're using extension module use extension's `Router` class else use core's `Router` class.

**2. Manually performing the signup steps :**

While performing sign up manually, it has to be made sure that data needs to be synced from server to the Haptik SDK. Make sure to call this before signing up the user on the Haptik Platform.

Place the following piece of code on the click of the view that launches the Haptik SDK.

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->
<!--Java-->

```java
HaptikLib.performInitialDataSync(new Callback<Boolean>() {
                @Override
                public void success(Boolean result) {
                    // Place the code to sign up the user with Haptik platform here
                }

                @Override
                public void failure(HaptikException exception) {

                    /* Block the redirection to the Haptik screen here
                    You can display the error message here, and ask the user
                    to retry the action.
                    */
                }
            });
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->

Good Practice:

- You can set a flag in your app to make sure that once the initial data sync is done, you can avoid it in the next app
  launch.
- If you follow the above step, make sure to reset the flag when you perform `logout` from Haptik SDK.
- When signing up the user, be sure to sign up the user on the success
  of initial data sync, we do not recommend signing up the user anywhere
  other than the success of the performInitialDataSync() method, as this
  may cause unusual behaviour.

Now, start the signup process :

- Place the following code in the `success()` callback of the `performInitialDataSync()` method.
- Use the `SignUpData` created in the above steps and pass it to the `HaptikLib.signUp` method as follows :

<!--DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->
<!--Java-->

```java
HaptikLib.signUp(signUpData, new Callback<User>() {
            @Override
            public void success(User user) {
                //Recommended: Redirect the user to the Activity displaying the Haptik Inbox View
            }

            @Override
            public void failure(HaptikException e) {
                //Take appropriate action on encountering failure
            }
        });
```

<!--END_DOCUSAURUS_CODE_TABS-->
