---
title: How to send messages to user
---

## Log Message to Haptik via Rest Api

The Log Message API allows you to send messages via a `POST` request to the Haptik Platform. The URL for message logging is generated on the Haptik Platform Dashboard.

### URL

`https://staging-messenger.haptikapi.com/v1.0/log_message_from_user/`

### Header

```
Authorization: Bearer <TOKEN>
client-id: <CLIENT_ID>
Content-Type: application/json
```

- Authorization - The Authorization header of each HTTP request should be “Bearer” followed by your token which will be provided by Haptik
- client-id - The client id for your account which will be provided by Haptik
- Content-Type - application/json

### Post

```json
{
  "user": {
    "auth_id": "<AUTH_ID>"
  },
  "message_body": "<MESSAGE_BODY>",
  "message_type": 0,
  "business_id": 343
}
```

- auth_id - This is an alphanumeric User identifier from your system
- business_id - This is a numeric identifier for channel/queue that you wish to register the message on.
- message_body - The message body containing the message to be sent to the bot or agent.
- message_type - This defines the processing pipeline for messages, standard messages are of type `0`

### Response

A successful request to the log message sent API will return a `200` status code with a JSON response object. It will contain a unique message id and other metadata about the message.

```json
{
  "message_id": 1411200492,
  "message_body": "<MESSAGE_BODY>",
  "created_at": "2018-10-04T12:41:27.980Z",
  "message_type": 0
}
```

- message_id - message id generated by haptik system
- message_body - message body that was logged in the haptik system
- created_at - ISO timestamp denoting when the message was created in the haptik system
- message_type - This defines the processing pipeline for messages, standard messages are of type `0`

### Error Response

If the user with auth_id is not registered, then the API will return a `403` status code.

```json
{
  "error_message": "user is not registered"
}
```

If the Authorization header is missing or invalid, then the API will return a `401` status code.

```json
{
  "error_message": "invalid authorization details"
}
```

### Sample CURL command

```
curl -X POST \
    https://staging-messenger.haptikapi.com/v1.0/log_message_from_user/ \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <TOKEN>' \
  -H 'client-id: <CLIENT_ID>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "message_body": "<MESSAGE_BODY>",
    "business_id": 343,
    "message_type": 0,
    "user": {"auth_id": "<AUTH_ID>"}
}'
```